[Pages]: How to use Pages Functions for A/B testing (#4300)
cloudflare/cloudflare-docs: content/pages/how-to/use-worker-for-ab-testing-in-pages.md

{{</Aside>}}

Following the Functions naming convention, the `_middleware.js` file exports a single async `onRequest` function that accepts a `request`, `env` and `next` as an argument. 

```js
---
filename: /functions/_middleware.js
---
const abTest = async ({request, next, env}) => {
  /*
  Todo: 
  1. Conditional statements to check for the cookie
  2. Assign cookies based on percentage, then sever 
  */
}

export const onRequest = [abTest]
```

To set the cookie, create the `cookieName` variable and assign any value. Then create the `newHomepagePathName` variable and assign it `/test`:

```js
---
filename: /functions/_middleware.js
highlight: [1,2]
---
const cookieName = "ab-test-cookie"
const newHomepagePathName = "/test"

const abTest = async ({request, next, env}) => {
  /*
  Todo: 
  1. Conditional statements to check for the cookie
  2. Assign cookie based on percentage then serve 
  */
}

export const onRequest = [abTest]
```

## Set up conditional logic

> Based on the URL pathname, check that the cookie value is equal to `new` (`  if (cookie && cookie.includes(`${cookieName}=new`)) {`). If the value is `new`, then `newHomepagePathName` will be served.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Based on the URL pathname, check that the cookie value is equal to `new`. If the value is `new`, then `newHomepagePathName` will be served.
```

const abTest = async ({ request, next, env }) => {
  const url = new URL(request.url)
  // if homepage
  if (url.pathname === "/") {
    // if cookie ab-test-cookie=new then change the request to go to /test
    // if no cookie set, pass x% of traffic and set a cookie value to "current" or "new"

    let cookie = request.headers.get("cookie")
    // is cookie set?
    if (cookie && cookie.includes(`${cookieName}=new`)) {
      // pass the request to /test
      url.pathname = newHomepagePathName
      return env.ASSETS.fetch(url)
    } else {
      const percentage = Math.floor(Math.random() * 100)
      let version = "current" // default version
      // change pathname and version name for 50% of traffic 
      if (percentage < 50) {
        url.pathname = newHomepagePathName
        version = "new"
      }
      // get the static file from ASSETS, and attach a cookie
      const asset = await env.ASSETS.fetch(url)
      let response = new Response(asset.body, asset)
      response.headers.append("Set-Cookie", `${cookieName}=${version}; path=/`)
      return response
    }
  }
  return next()
};

export const onRequest = [abTest];
```

## Deploy to Cloudflare Pages

> Now that you have set up your `functions/_middleware.js` file in your project you are ready to deploy with Pages. If you are working with an existing Git project in the dashboard, push your project changes to GitHub/GitLab. If using Direct Uploads, refer to the [Direct Upload guide](/pages/platform/direct-upload) to publish and deploy your project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that you have set up your `functions/_middleware.js` file in your project you are ready to deploy with Pages. If you are working with an existing Git project in the dashboard, push your project changes to GitHub/GitLab. If you are building your project locally and uploading with Direct Uploads, refer to the [Direct Uploads guide](/pages/platform/direct-upload/) to publish and deploy your project.
```

> Now that you have set up your `functions/_middleware.js` file in your project you are ready to deploy with Pages. If you are working with an existing Git project in the dashboard, push your project changes to GitHub/GitLab. If using Direct Uploads, refer to the [Direct Upload guide](/pages/platform/direct-upload/) to publish and deploy your project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that you have set up your `functions/_middleware.js` file in your project you are ready to deploy with Pages. If you are working with an existing Git project in the dashboard, push your project changes to GitHub/GitLab. If using Direct Uploads, refer to the [Direct Upload guide](/pages/platform/direct-upload) to publish and deploy your project.
```

> Now that you have set up your `functions/_middleware.js` file in your project you are ready to deploy with Pages. If you are working with an existing Git project in the dashboard, push your project changes to GitHub/GitLab. If you are building your project locally and uploading with Direct Uploads, refer to the [Direct Uploads guide](/pages/platform/direct-upload/) to publish and deploy your project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that you have set up your `functions/_middleware.js` file in your project you are ready to deploy with Pages. Push your project changes to GitHub/GitLab.
```

---
pcx-content-type: how-to
title: Use Pages Functions for A/B testing
---

# Use Pages Functions for A/B testing

In this guide, you will learn how to use [Pages Functions](/pages/platform/functions/) for A/B testing in your Pages projects. A/B testing is a user experience research methodology applied when comparing two or more versions of a web page or application. With A/B testing, you can serve two or more versions of a webpage to users and divide traffic to your site.

# Overview 

Configuring different versions of your application for A/B testing will be unique to your specific use case. For all developers, A/B testing setup can be simplified into a few helpful principles.

Depending on the number of application versions you have (this guide uses two), you can assign your users into experimental groups. The experimental groups in this guide are the base route `/` and the test route `/test`.

To ensure that a user remains in the group you have given, you will set and store a cookie in the browser and depending on the cookie value you have set, the corresponding route will be served.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

---
pcx-content-type: how-to
title: Use Pages Functions for A/B testing
---

# Use Pages Functions for A/B testing

In this guide, you will learn how to use [Page Functions](/pages/platform/functions/) for A/B testing in your Pages projects. A/B testing is a user experience research methodology applied when comparing two or more versions of a webpage or application. With A/B testing, you can serve two or more versions of a webpage to users and divide traffic to your site.

# Overview 

While setting up different versions of your application to determine the experience for your users with A/B testing is unique to your specific use case, the process of setting up A/B testing can be broken down into the same helpful principles.

> Depending on the number of versions you have(this guide uses two), you can assign your users into experimental groups. To ensure that a user remains in the group you have given, a cookie will be set and stored in the browsers. Then, based on the value of the cookie, they will sever the route associated with that cookie.

Author: The route that is associated with the cookie will be served. It depends on the route to cookie assignment defined by the developer. In the guide, I show that the `current` cookie will be served the `/` route and `new` cookie will give `/test`.

{{<Aside type="Note">}}

> It is helpful to use cookies because you want users to be served the same version every time they come to your application, even when they refresh. This will help keep things consistent for future rollouts. 

Author: Updated

{{</Aside>}}

> After you have gotten the value from the cookie, you can then have a conditional rendering set up that checks the value of the existing cookie and then assigns a group. Without a cookie, you will give one and set the URL. 

Author: I have updated the section. Let me know if it reads better now.

> After you have gotten the value from the cookie, you can then have a conditional rendering set up that checks the value of the existing cookie and then assigns a group. Without a cookie, you will give one and set the URL. 

Author: Yea that makes sense. 
```suggestion
After you have set the value from the cookie, you can then have a conditional rendering set up that checks the value of the existing cookie and then assigns a group. Without a cookie, you will give one and set the URL. 
```

## Settting up your Pages Function

In your project, you can handle the logic for A/B testing using [Pages Functions](/pages/platform/functions/). Pages Functions allows you to handle server logic from within your Pages project. Create a `/functions` directory at the root of your project to get started. Your application server logic will live in the functions folder. 

## Adding middleware logic

Pages Functions have utility functions that can reuse chunks of logic which are executed before and/or after route handlers. These are called [middleware](/pages/platform/functions/#adding-middleware). In our A/B testing use-case, we want to intercept the request before it gets to the server, which is perfect middleware use. In your `/functions` directory, create an `_middleware.js` file. 

{{<Aside type="Note">}}

Creating your middleware file at the base of your functions folder means that it will run for all routes on your project. To learn more about [middleware routing](/pages/platform/functions/#middleware-routing) refer to the documentation.

{{</Aside>}}

> Following the functions naming convention, the `_middleware.js` file export a single async `OnRequest` function that accepts a `request`, `env` and `next`  as an argument. 

Author: Pages Functions convention.

```js
---
filename: /functions/_middleware.js
---
const abtest = async({request, next, env}) => {
  /*
  Todo: 
  1. Conditional statements to check for the cookie
  2. Assign cookies based on percentage, then sever 
  */
}

export const onRequest = [abtest]
```

To identify the cookie, we assign it in the browser. We will give it a unique name; for this example, create a variable above your async function. You can also define your routes. We will call the second route `/test` in this guide.

```js
---
filename: /functions/_middleware.js
highlight: [1,2]
---
const cookieName = "ab-test-cookie"
const newHomepagePathName = "/test"

const abtest = async({request, next, env}) => {
  /*
  Todo: 
  1. Conditional statements to check for the cookie
  2. Assign cookie based on percentage then serve 
  */
}

export const onRequest = [abtest]
```

## Set up conditional logic

> In our A/B testing, we want to be able to send a user to particular routes based on the presence of a cookie value. First, we need to intercept the URL request. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In your A/B testing, you want to be able to send a user to particular routes based on the presence of a cookie value. To do this, you must first intercept the URL request. 
```

Based on the URL pathname, we will check what cookie value is present in the header, and based on the value; we will either set the base route or the `/test` route and fetch the assets for that route. 

```js
---
filename: /functions/_middleware.js
highlight: [7,8,9,10,11,12,13,14,15,16,17,18,19]
---
const cookieName = "ab-test-cookie"
const newHomepagePathName = "/test"

const abtest = async({request, next, env}) => {
  const url = new URL(request.url)

  if (url.pathname === "/") {
    // if cookie ab-test-hp=new
    // if no cookie set, pass x% of traffic and set a cookie value (current|new)
    
    let cookie = request.headers.get("cookie")
    // is cookie set?
    if (cookie && cookie.includes(`${cookieName}`)) {
      if (cookie.includes(`${cookieName}=new`)) {
        // pass the request to /new-homepage
        url.pathname = newHomepagePathName
        return env.ASSETS.fetch(url)
      }
  }
    /*
    Todo: 
    1. Assign cookies based on randomly genrated percentage, then serve

    */
}

export const onRequest = [abtest]

```

> On the other hand, if the cookie isn't present, you will have to assign one. You can generate numbers randomly by using the `Math.random()` Javascript method and getting whole numbers by calling a `Math.floor()` on the function.

Reviewer: Being clear here, is what is not present the cookie or the cookie header?

> On the other hand, if the cookie isn't present, you will have to assign one. You can generate numbers randomly by using the `Math.random()` Javascript method and getting whole numbers by calling a `Math.floor()` on the function.

Author: The cookie header

> To make the values into percentages, multiple `Math.random()` by 100 and call`Math.floor()` so that all the percentages can be whole numbers. Our default version is given a value of `current`.

Reviewer: Is there more than one cookie? Is that why 'values' instead of 'value'?

> To make the values into percentages, multiple `Math.random()` by 100 and call`Math.floor()` so that all the percentages can be whole numbers. Our default version is given a value of `current`.

Author: I have updated this, let me know how it reads now.

> If the percentage is lower than 50, you will assign the version to `new` and based on the value randomly generated; we will set the cookie and serve the assets. After the conditional block pass the request to `next()`, this will pass the request back to the browser.

Author: ```suggestion
If the percentage of the number genrated is lower than 50, you will assign the cookie version to `new` and based on the percentage randomly generated; we will set the cookie and serve the assets. After the conditional block pass the request to `next()`, this will pass the request back to the browser.
```

> If the percentage is lower than 50, you will assign the version to `new` and based on the value randomly generated; we will set the cookie and serve the assets. After the conditional block pass the request to `next()`, this will pass the request back to the browser.

Author: How does it read now?

  const url = new URL(request.url)

  // if homepage
  if (url.pathname === "/") {
    // if cookie ab-test-hp=new
    // if no cookie set, pass xy% of traffic and set a cookie value (current|new)
    
    let cookie = request.headers.get("cookie")
    // is cookie set?
    if (cookie && cookie.includes(`${cookieName}`)) {
      if (cookie.includes(`${cookieName}=new`)) {
        // pass the request to /new-homepage
        url.pathname = newHomepagePathName
        return env.ASSETS.fetch(url)
      }
    } else {
      const perc = Math.floor(Math.random() * 100)
      let version = "current" // default version

      // change pathname and version name for traffic less than 50% 
      if (perc < 50) {
        url.pathname = newHomepagePathName
        version = "new"
      }

      // get the static file from ASSETS, and attach a cookie
      const asset = await env.ASSETS.fetch(url)
      let response = new Response(asset.body, asset)
      response.headers.append("Set-Cookie", `${cookieName}=${version}; path=/`)
      return response
    }
  }

  return next()
};

export const onRequest = [abtest];
```

# Deploy to Cloudflare Pages

> Now that you have set up your `functions/_middleware.js` file in your project. Deploy your site to Pages by logging in to the Cloudflare dashboard > Account Home > Pages and selecting Create a project. Select the new  GitHub repository that you created and, in the Set up builds and deployments section, provide the following information:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that you have set up your `functions/_middleware.js` file in your project you are ready to deploy your project. Deploy your site to Pages by logging in to the [Cloudflare dashboard](https://dash.cloudflare.com/login) > **Account Home** > **Pages** and selecting **Create a project**. Select your git repository that you created and, in the **Set up builds and deployments** section, provide the following information:
```

Reviewer: Is this feature only possible with GitHub? if not, this needs a correction.

Author: Should be git provider, you are right.

<div>

| Configuration option     | Value                 |
| ------------------------ | --------------------- |
| Production branch        | `main`                |
| Build command (optional) | `<YOUR_BUILD_COMMAND>`|
| Build output directory   | `<YOUR_BUILD_DIR>`    |

</div>

> After you have deployed your application, you will see your middleware Function under Functions > Configuration in the current build. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After you have deployed your application, you will see your middleware Function under **Pages** > **Settings** > **Functions** > Configuration in the current build. 
```
"Configuration in the current build. " this doesn't show up on my dash, do you have a screenshot?

Author: It shows up when you deploy a function under Configuration.

---
pcx-content-type: how-to
title: Use Pages Functions for A/B testing
---

# Use Pages Functions for A/B testing

In this guide, you will learn how to use [Pages Functions](/pages/platform/functions/) for A/B testing in your Pages projects. A/B testing is a user experience research methodology applied when comparing two or more versions of a webpage or application. With A/B testing, you can serve two or more versions of a webpage to users and divide traffic to your site.

# Overview 

Configuring different versions of your application for A/B testing will be unique to your specific use case. For all developers, A/B testing setup can be simplified into a few helpful principles.

> Depending on the number of application versions you have (this guide uses two), you can assign your users into experimental groups. To ensure that a user remains in the group you have given, a cookie will be set and stored in the browser. Then, based on the value of the cookie, the browser will sever the route associated with that cookie.

Author: Add the names of application versions

      if (perc < 50) {
        url.pathname = newHomepagePathName
        version = "new"
      }

      // get the static file from ASSETS, and attach a cookie
      const asset = await env.ASSETS.fetch(url)
      let response = new Response(asset.body, asset)
      response.headers.append("Set-Cookie", `${cookieName}=${version}; path=/`)
      return response
    }
  }

  return next()
};

export const onRequest = [abtest];
```

## Deploy to Cloudflare Pages

Now that you have set up your `functions/_middleware.js` file in your project you are ready to deploy your project. Deploy your site to Pages by logging in to the [Cloudflare dashboard](https://dash.cloudflare.com/login) > **Account Home** > **Pages** and selecting **Create a project**. Select your git repository that you created and, in the **Set up builds and deployments** section, provide the following information:

<div>

| Configuration option     | Value                 |
| ------------------------ | --------------------- |
| Production branch        | `main`                |
| Build command (optional) | `<YOUR_BUILD_COMMAND>`|
| Build output directory   | `<YOUR_BUILD_DIR>`    |

</div>

> After you have deployed your application, you will see your middleware Function under **Pages** > **Settings** > **Functions** > Configuration. 

Author: @deadlypants1973 you don't see build output directory?

> After you have deployed your application, you will see your middleware Function under **Pages** > **Settings** > **Functions** > Configuration. 

Author: <img width="702" alt="Screenshot 2022-05-24 at 14 54 12" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/35943047/170052766-b99a1517-6a9c-43d4-9422-f305393f421a.png">

---
pcx-content-type: how-to
title: Use Pages Functions for A/B testing
---

# Use Pages Functions for A/B testing

In this guide, you will learn how to use [Pages Functions](/pages/platform/functions/) for A/B testing in your Pages projects. A/B testing is a user experience research methodology applied when comparing two or more versions of a web page or application. With A/B testing, you can serve two or more versions of a webpage to users and divide traffic to your site.

# Overview 

Configuring different versions of your application for A/B testing will be unique to your specific use case. For all developers, A/B testing setup can be simplified into a few helpful principles.

Depending on the number of application versions you have (this guide uses two), you can assign your users into experimental groups. The experimental groups in this guide are the base route `/` and the test route `/test`.

> To ensure that a user remains in the group you have given, a cookie will be set and stored in the browser and depending on cookie value the corresponding route will be served.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To ensure that a user remains in the group you have given, you will set and store a cookie in the browser and depending on the cookie value you have set, the corresponding route will be served.
```

> You can use any cookie library (for example, [`js-cookie`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/js-cookie)) to generate cookies. This guide assigns a local value to a `cookieName` variable and uses that as the cookie value. Depending on the cookie value, a route is served. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> The cookie assignment is done randomly by using `Math.random()` which generates a list of random decimal numbers. You can make the numbers a whole number by calling the `Math.floor()` method on `Math.random()` like this: `Math.floor(Math.random())` and to make sure that you have a maximum range of numbers you can multiply by `100`. This means that you can now think of your assignments in terms of percentages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Your percentage generator code should look like this `Math.floor(Math.random() * 100)`.

{{<Aside type="Note">}}

Cookies are helpful because they allow users to be served the same version of your application every time they visit and refresh your site. This will help keep the served version consistent for future rollouts. 

{{</Aside>}}

After you have set the value from the cookie, you can then have a conditional rendering set up that checks the value of the existing cookie and then assigns a group. Without a cookie, you will give one and set the URL. 

## Set up your Pages Function

In your project, you can handle the logic for A/B testing using [Pages Functions](/pages/platform/functions/). Pages Functions allows you to handle server logic from within your Pages project. 

> To begin, go to your Pages project and create a `/functions` directory. Your application server logic will live in the `/functions` folder. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To begin:

 1. Go to your Pages project directory on your local machine.
 2. Create a `/functions` directory. Your application server logic will live in the `/functions` directory. 
```

## Add middleware logic

> Pages Functions have utility functions that can reuse chunks of logic which are executed before and/or after route handlers. These are called [middleware](/pages/platform/functions/#adding-middleware). Following this guide, you will want to intercept requests before they get to your origin server, making ideal use of middleware.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Pages Functions have utility functions that can reuse chunks of logic which are executed before and/or after route handlers. These are called [middleware](/pages/platform/functions/#adding-middleware). Following this guide, middleware will allow you to intercept requests to your Pages project before they reach your site.
```

Following the Functions naming convention, the `_middleware.js` file exports a single async `onRequest` function that accepts a `request`, `env` and `next` as an argument. 

```js
---
filename: /functions/_middleware.js
---
const abTest = async ({request, next, env}) => {
  /*
  Todo: 
  1. Conditional statements to check for the cookie
  2. Assign cookies based on percentage, then sever 
  */
}

export const onRequest = [abTest]
```

To identify the cookie, assign it in the browser and give it a unique name. Create a variable above your async function. Here, you can define the second route as `newHomepagePathName` and assign it `/test`:

```js
---
filename: /functions/_middleware.js
highlight: [1,2]
---
const cookieName = "ab-test-cookie"
const newHomepagePathName = "/test"

const abTest = async ({request, next, env}) => {
  /*
  Todo: 
  1. Conditional statements to check for the cookie
  2. Assign cookie based on percentage then serve 
  */
}

export const onRequest = [abTest]
```

## Set up conditional logic

In your A/B testing, you want to be able to send a user to particular routes based on the presence of a cookie value. To do this, you must first intercept the request. 

> Based on the URL pathname, check what cookie value is present in the header. Based on the value, you will either set the base route or the `/test` route and fetch the assets for that route. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Based on the URL pathname, check that the cookie value is equal to `new` (`  if (cookie && cookie.includes(`${cookieName}=new`)) {`). If the value is `new`, then `newHomepagePathName` will be served.
```

```js
---
filename: /functions/_middleware.js
highlight: [7,8,9,10,11,12,13,14,15,16,17,18,19]
---
const cookieName = "ab-test-cookie"
const newHomepagePathName = "/test"

const abTest = async ({request, next, env}) => {
  /*
  Todo: 
  1. Assign cookies based on randomly genrated percentage, then serve
  */

  const url = new URL(request.url)
  if (url.pathname === "/") {
    // if cookie ab-test-cookie=new then change the request to go to /test
    // if no cookie set, pass x% of traffic and set a cookie value to "current" or "new"

    let cookie = request.headers.get("cookie")
    // is cookie set?
    if (cookie && cookie.includes(`${cookieName}=new`)) {
      // Change the request to go to /test (as set in the newHomepagePathName variable)
      url.pathname = newHomepagePathName
      return env.ASSETS.fetch(url)
    }
  }
}

export const onRequest = [abTest]
```

> If the cookie value is not present, you will have to assign one. You can generate numbers randomly by using the `Math.random()` method and getting whole numbers by calling a `Math.floor()` on the function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You will now assign a cookie value. You can generate numbers randomly by using the `Math.random()` method and getting whole numbers by calling a `Math.floor()` on the function.
```

      // pass the request to /test
      url.pathname = newHomepagePathName
      return env.ASSETS.fetch(url)
    } else {
      const percentage = Math.floor(Math.random() * 100)
      let version = "current" // default version
      // change pathname and version name for 50% of traffic 
      if (percentage < 50) {
        url.pathname = newHomepagePathName
        version = "new"
      }
      // get the static file from ASSETS, and attach a cookie
      const asset = await env.ASSETS.fetch(url)
      let response = new Response(asset.body, asset)
      response.headers.append("Set-Cookie", `${cookieName}=${version}; path=/`)
      return response
    }
  }
  return next()
};

export const onRequest = [abTest];
```

## Deploy to Cloudflare Pages

Now that you have set up your `functions/_middleware.js` file in your project you are ready to deploy with Pages. Log in to the [Cloudflare dashboard](https://dash.cloudflare.com/login) > **Account Home** > **Pages** and select **Create a project**. Select your git repository that you created and, in the **Set up builds and deployments** section, provide the following information:

> 
> <div>
> 
> | Configuration option     | Value                 |
> | ------------------------ | --------------------- |
> | Production branch        | `main`                |
> | Build command (optional) | `<YOUR_BUILD_COMMAND>`|
> | Build output directory   | `<YOUR_BUILD_DIR>`    |
> 
> </div>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

---
pcx-content-type: how-to
title: Use Pages Functions for A/B testing
---

# Use Pages Functions for A/B testing

In this guide, you will learn how to use [Pages Functions](/pages/platform/functions/) for A/B testing in your Pages projects. A/B testing is a user experience research methodology applied when comparing two or more versions of a webpage or application. With A/B testing, you can serve two or more versions of a webpage to users and divide traffic to your site.

# Overview 

Configuring different versions of your application for A/B testing will be unique to your specific use case. For all developers, A/B testing setup can be simplified into a few helpful principles.

> Depending on the number of application versions you have (this guide uses two), you can assign your users into experimental groups. The experimental groups in this guide are the base route `/` and the test route `/test`.

Author: Yes, they are. I think the sentence shows this already since it's only dealing with two groups and versions.

To ensure that a user remains in the group you have given, a cookie will be set and stored in the browser and depending on cookie value the corresponding route will be served.

> You can use any cookie library for example, [Js cookie](https://www.npmjs.com/package/js-cookie) to generate cookies. This guide assigns a local value to a `cookieName` variable and uses that as the cookie value. Depending on the cookie value a route is served. The cookie assignment is done randomly by using `Math.random()` which gernerates a list of random decimal numbers, you can make the numbers a whole number by calling the `Math.floor()` method on `Math.random()` like this:  `Math.floor(Math.random())` and to make sure that you have a maximum range of numbers you can multiple by 100. This means that you can now think of your assignments in terms of percentages. `Math.floor(Math.random() * 100)`

Author: Let me know how it reads now. I couldn’t think of what to call it so I went with "percentage generator code"

{{<Aside type="Note">}}

Cookies are helpful because they allow users to be served the same version of your application every time they visit and when they refresh the site. This will help keep the version served consistent for future rollouts. 

{{</Aside>}}

After you have gotten the value from the cookie, you can then have a conditional rendering set up that checks the value of the existing cookie and then assigns a group. Without a cookie, you will give one and set the URL. 

## Set up your Pages Function

In your project, you can handle the logic for A/B testing using [Pages Functions](/pages/platform/functions/). Pages Functions allows you to handle server logic from within your Pages project. 

To begin, go to your Pages project and create a `/functions` directory. Your application server logic will live in the `/functions` folder. 

## Add middleware logic

> Then, in your `/functions` directory, create a `_middleware.js` file. Pages Functions have utility functions that can reuse chunks of logic which are executed before and/or after route handlers. These are called [middleware](/pages/platform/functions/#adding-middleware). Following this guide, you want to intercept the request before it gets to the server, making ideal use of middleware.

Author: Yea! I flipped the sentences to introduce middleware before the file creation. Let me know how this reads.

{{<Aside type="Note">}}

When you create your `_middleware.js` file at the base of your `/functions` folder, the middleware will run for all routes on your project. Learn more about [middleware routing](/pages/platform/functions/#middleware-routing).

{{</Aside>}}

Following the Functions naming convention, the `_middleware.js` file exports a single async `OnRequest` function that accepts a `request`, `env` and `next`  as an argument. 

```js
---
filename: /functions/_middleware.js
---
const abtest = async({request, next, env}) => {
  /*
  Todo: 
  1. Conditional statements to check for the cookie
  2. Assign cookies based on percentage, then sever 
  */
}

export const onRequest = [abtest]
```

> To identify the cookie, assign it in the browser and give it a unique name. For this example, create a variable above your async function. You can also define your routes. Following this guide, call the second route `/test`.

Author: I updated that section, how does it read now?

      if (perc < 50) {
        url.pathname = newHomepagePathName
        version = "new"
      }

      // get the static file from ASSETS, and attach a cookie
      const asset = await env.ASSETS.fetch(url)
      let response = new Response(asset.body, asset)
      response.headers.append("Set-Cookie", `${cookieName}=${version}; path=/`)
      return response
    }
  }

  return next()
};

export const onRequest = [abtest];
```

## Deploy to Cloudflare Pages

Now that you have set up your `functions/_middleware.js` file in your project you are ready to deploy your project. Deploy your site to Pages by logging in to the [Cloudflare dashboard](https://dash.cloudflare.com/login) > **Account Home** > **Pages** and selecting **Create a project**. Select your git repository that you created and, in the **Set up builds and deployments** section, provide the following information:

<div>

| Configuration option     | Value                 |
| ------------------------ | --------------------- |
| Production branch        | `main`                |
| Build command (optional) | `<YOUR_BUILD_COMMAND>`|
| Build output directory   | `<YOUR_BUILD_DIR>`    |

</div>

> After you have deployed your application, you will see your middleware Function under **Pages** > **Settings** > **Functions** > Configuration. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After you have deployed your application, you will see your middleware Function in the Cloudflare dashboard under **Pages** > **Settings** > **Functions** > **Configuration**. 
```

---
pcx-content-type: how-to
title: Use Pages Functions for A/B testing
---

# Use Pages Functions for A/B testing

In this guide, you will learn how to use [Pages Functions](/pages/platform/functions/) for A/B testing in your Pages projects. A/B testing is a user experience research methodology applied when comparing two or more versions of a web page or application. With A/B testing, you can serve two or more versions of a webpage to users and divide traffic to your site.

# Overview 

Configuring different versions of your application for A/B testing will be unique to your specific use case. For all developers, A/B testing setup can be simplified into a few helpful principles.

Depending on the number of application versions you have (this guide uses two), you can assign your users into experimental groups. The experimental groups in this guide are the base route `/` and the test route `/test`.

To ensure that a user remains in the group you have given, a cookie will be set and stored in the browser and depending on cookie value the corresponding route will be served.

> You can use any cookie library (for example, [`js-cookie`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/js-cookie)) to generate cookies. This guide assigns a local value to a `cookieName` variable and uses that as the cookie value. Depending on the cookie value, a route is served. 

Reviewer 2: Also, we talk about a lib but never use it. Can we just remove this library comment?

> You can use any cookie library (for example, [`js-cookie`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/js-cookie)) to generate cookies. This guide assigns a local value to a `cookieName` variable and uses that as the cookie value. Depending on the cookie value, a route is served. 

Author: It's more of a suggestion, to let people know that there are more secure ways to generate cookies.

To begin, go to your Pages project and create a `/functions` directory. Your application server logic will live in the `/functions` folder. 

## Add middleware logic

Pages Functions have utility functions that can reuse chunks of logic which are executed before and/or after route handlers. These are called [middleware](/pages/platform/functions/#adding-middleware). Following this guide, you will want to intercept requests before they get to your origin server, making ideal use of middleware.

In your `/functions` directory, create a `_middleware.js` file. 

{{<Aside type="Note">}}

When you create your `_middleware.js` file at the base of your `/functions` folder, the middleware will run for all routes on your project. Learn more about [middleware routing](/pages/platform/functions/#middleware-routing).

{{</Aside>}}

Following the Functions naming convention, the `_middleware.js` file exports a single async `OnRequest` function that accepts a `request`, `env` and `next` as an argument. 

```js
---
filename: /functions/_middleware.js
---

> const abtest = async({request, next, env}) => {

Author: Most of our Functions examples use object deconstruction, for consistency let's leave it this way.

  /*
  Todo: 
  1. Conditional statements to check for the cookie
  2. Assign cookies based on percentage, then sever 
  */
}

export const onRequest = [abtest]
```

To identify the cookie, assign it in the browser and give it a unique name. Create a variable above your async function. Here, you can define the second route as `newHomepagePathName` and assign it to`/test`:

```js
---
filename: /functions/_middleware.js
highlight: [1,2]
---
const cookieName = "ab-test-cookie"
const newHomepagePathName = "/test"

> const abtest = async({request, next, env}) => {

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
const abTest = async ({request, next, env}) => {
```

  /*
  Todo: 
  1. Conditional statements to check for the cookie
  2. Assign cookie based on percentage then serve 
  */
}

> export const onRequest = [abtest]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
export const onRequest = [abTest]
```

```

## Set up conditional logic

> In your A/B testing, you want to be able to send a user to particular routes based on the presence of a cookie value. To do this, you must first intercept the URL request. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In your A/B testing, you want to be able to send a user to particular routes based on the presence of a cookie value. To do this, you must first intercept the request. 
```

Based on the URL pathname, check what cookie value is present in the header. Based on the value, you will either set the base route or the `/test` route and fetch the assets for that route. 

```js
---
filename: /functions/_middleware.js
highlight: [7,8,9,10,11,12,13,14,15,16,17,18,19]
---

> const cookieName = "ab-test-cookie"
> const newHomepagePathName = "/test"
> 
> const abtest = async({request, next, env}) => {
>   const url = new URL(request.url)
> 
>   if (url.pathname === "/") {
>     // if cookie ab-test-hp=new
>     // if no cookie set, pass x% of traffic and set a cookie value (current|new)
>     
>     let cookie = request.headers.get("cookie")
>     // is cookie set?
>     if (cookie && cookie.includes(`${cookieName}`)) {
>       if (cookie.includes(`${cookieName}=new`)) {
>         // pass the request to /new-homepage
>         url.pathname = newHomepagePathName
>         return env.ASSETS.fetch(url)
>       }
>   }
>     /*
>     Todo: 
>     1. Assign cookies based on randomly genrated percentage, then serve
> 
>     */
> }
> 
> export const onRequest = [abtest]
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
const cookieName = "ab-test-cookie"
const newHomepagePathName = "/test"

const abTest = async ({request, next, env}) => {
  /*
  Todo: 
  1. Assign cookies based on randomly genrated percentage, then serve
  */

  const url = new URL(request.url)
  if (url.pathname === "/") {
    // if cookie ab-test-cookie=new then change the request to go to /test
    // if no cookie set, pass x% of traffic and set a cookie value to "current" or "new"

    let cookie = request.headers.get("cookie")
    // is cookie set?
    if (cookie && cookie.includes(`${cookieName}=new`)) {
      // Change the request to go to /test (as set in the newHomepagePathName variable)
      url.pathname = newHomepagePathName
      return env.ASSETS.fetch(url)
    }
  }
}

export const onRequest = [abTest]
```

```

> If the cookie value is not present, you will have to assign one. You can generate numbers randomly by using the `Math.random()` method and getting whole numbers by calling a `Math.floor()` on the function.
> 
> To make the number genrated into percentages, multiply `Math.random()` by `100` and call `Math.floor()` so that all the percentages can be whole numbers. Your default cookie version is given a value of `current`.

Reviewer 2: This is already mentioned above, no need to repeat it.

```suggestion
If the cookie value is not present, you will have to assign one. You can generate a percentage (from 0-99) as already mentioned above with the code `Math.floor(Math.random() * 100)`. Your default cookie version is given a value of `current`.
```

> If the percentage of the number generated is lower than `50`, you will assign the cookie version to `new`. Based on the percentage randomly generated, you will set the cookie and serve the assets. After the conditional block, pass the request to `next()`. This will pass the request back to the browser.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the percentage of the number generated is lower than `50`, you will assign the cookie version to `new`. Based on the percentage randomly generated, you will set the cookie and serve the assets. After the conditional block, pass the request to `next()`. This will pass the request back to the browser. This will result in 50% of users getting the new homepage.
```

```js
---
filename: /functions/_middleware.js
highlight: [20,21,22,23,24,25,26,27,28,29,30,31,32,33,34,35,36]
---

> const cookieName = "ab-test-homepage"
> const newHomepagePathName = "/test"
> 
> const abtest = async ({ request, next, env }) => {
>   const url = new URL(request.url)
> 
>   // if homepage
>   if (url.pathname === "/") {
>     // if cookie ab-test-hp=new
>     // if no cookie set, pass xy% of traffic and set a cookie value (current|new)
>     
>     let cookie = request.headers.get("cookie")
>     // is cookie set?
>     if (cookie && cookie.includes(`${cookieName}`)) {
>       if (cookie.includes(`${cookieName}=new`)) {
>         // pass the request to /new-homepage
>         url.pathname = newHomepagePathName
>         return env.ASSETS.fetch(url)
>       }
>     } else {
>       const perc = Math.floor(Math.random() * 100)
>       let version = "current" // default version
> 
>       // change pathname and version name for traffic less than 50% 
>       if (perc < 50) {
>         url.pathname = newHomepagePathName
>         version = "new"
>       }
> 
>       // get the static file from ASSETS, and attach a cookie
>       const asset = await env.ASSETS.fetch(url)
>       let response = new Response(asset.body, asset)
>       response.headers.append("Set-Cookie", `${cookieName}=${version}; path=/`)
>       return response
>     }
>   }
> 
>   return next()
> };
> 
> export const onRequest = [abtest];

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
const cookieName = "ab-test-cookie"
const newHomepagePathName = "/test"

const abTest = async ({ request, next, env }) => {
  const url = new URL(request.url)
  // if homepage
  if (url.pathname === "/") {
    // if cookie ab-test-cookie=new then change the request to go to /test
    // if no cookie set, pass x% of traffic and set a cookie value to "current" or "new"

    let cookie = request.headers.get("cookie")
    // is cookie set?
    if (cookie && cookie.includes(`${cookieName}=new`)) {
      // pass the request to /test
      url.pathname = newHomepagePathName
      return env.ASSETS.fetch(url)
    } else {
      const percentage = Math.floor(Math.random() * 100)
      let version = "current" // default version
      // change pathname and version name for 50% of traffic 
      if (percentage < 50) {
        url.pathname = newHomepagePathName
        version = "new"
      }
      // get the static file from ASSETS, and attach a cookie
      const asset = await env.ASSETS.fetch(url)
      let response = new Response(asset.body, asset)
      response.headers.append("Set-Cookie", `${cookieName}=${version}; path=/`)
      return response
    }
  }
  return next()
};

export const onRequest = [abTest];
```

```

## Deploy to Cloudflare Pages

> Now that you have set up your `functions/_middleware.js` file in your project you are ready to deploy with Pages. Log in to the [Cloudflare dashboard](https://dash.cloudflare.com/login) > **Account Home** > **Pages** and select **Create a project**. Select your git repository that you created and, in the **Set up builds and deployments** section, provide the following information:

Reviewer 2: Feels like they would probably already have a project if they're reading this page. Do we want to make this as if they don't @deadlypants1973 ?

If so... this flow has changed with direct uploads. So, we would need to add in both setup cases.

Author: I think we can add in the intro that this tutorial assumes that you already have a project because anyone trying to do a/b testing would usually have a project and other variations of the project to test.

# Overview 

Configuring different versions of your application for A/B testing will be unique to your specific use case. For all developers, A/B testing setup can be simplified into a few helpful principles.

Depending on the number of application versions you have (this guide uses two), you can assign your users into experimental groups. The experimental groups in this guide are the base route `/` and the test route `/test`.

To ensure that a user remains in the group you have given, a cookie will be set and stored in the browser and depending on cookie value the corresponding route will be served.

You can use any cookie library (for example, [`js-cookie`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/js-cookie)) to generate cookies. This guide assigns a local value to a `cookieName` variable and uses that as the cookie value. Depending on the cookie value, a route is served. 

> The cookie assignment is done randomly by using `Math.random()` which generates a list of random decimal numbers. You can make the numbers a whole number by calling the `Math.floor()` method on `Math.random()` like this: `Math.floor(Math.random())` and to make sure that you have a maximum range of numbers you can multiply by 100. This means that you can now think of your assignments in terms of percentages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The cookie assignment is done randomly by using `Math.random()` which generates a list of random decimal numbers. You can make the numbers a whole number by calling the `Math.floor()` method on `Math.random()` like this: `Math.floor(Math.random())` and to make sure that you have a maximum range of numbers you can multiply by `100`. This means that you can now think of your assignments in terms of percentages.
```

{{</Aside>}}

After you have set the value from the cookie, you can then have a conditional rendering set up that checks the value of the existing cookie and then assigns a group. Without a cookie, you will give one and set the URL. 

## Set up your Pages Function

In your project, you can handle the logic for A/B testing using [Pages Functions](/pages/platform/functions/). Pages Functions allows you to handle server logic from within your Pages project. 

To begin, go to your Pages project and create a `/functions` directory. Your application server logic will live in the `/functions` folder. 

## Add middleware logic

Pages Functions have utility functions that can reuse chunks of logic which are executed before and/or after route handlers. These are called [middleware](/pages/platform/functions/#adding-middleware). Following this guide, you will want to intercept requests before they get to your origin server, making ideal use of middleware.

In your `/functions` directory, create a `_middleware.js` file. 

> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

{{<Aside type="Note">}}

When you create your `_middleware.js` file at the base of your `/functions` folder, the middleware will run for all routes on your project. Learn more about [middleware routing](/pages/platform/functions/#middleware-routing).

{{</Aside>}}

Following the Functions naming convention, the `_middleware.js` file exports a single async `OnRequest` function that accepts a `request`, `env` and `next`  as an argument. 

```js
---
filename: /functions/_middleware.js
---
const abtest = async({request, next, env}) => {
  /*
  Todo: 
  1. Conditional statements to check for the cookie
  2. Assign cookies based on percentage, then sever 
  */
}

export const onRequest = [abtest]
```

> To identify the cookie, assign it in the browser and give it a unique name. Create a variable above your async function. Here, you can define the second route as `newHomepagePathName` and assign it to the`/test. As seen in the code below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To identify the cookie, assign it in the browser and give it a unique name. Create a variable above your async function. Here, you can define the second route as `newHomepagePathName` and assign it to`/test`:
```
